Add MV3 samples to Design the User Interface (#2384)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/user_interface/index.md

layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Design the user interface"
date: 2018-03-16
updated: 2022-03-25
description: UI and design guidelines for Chrome Extensions.
---

<!-- TODO: Extension sample links need to be updated, once the samples are approved -->
The extension user interface should be purposeful and minimal. Just like extensions themselves, the
UI should customize or enhance the browsing experience without distracting from it.

This guide explores required and optional user interface features. Use it to understand how and when
to implement different UI elements within an extension.

## The extension action {: #action }

The [action][api-action] API controls the extension's action (toolbar icon). It can either open a
[popup][section-popup] or trigger some functionality when it's [clicked][section-onclick]. 

By default, after installation, extensions appear under the extensions menu (the puzzle piece).
Users can then 'pin' it to the toolbar. After that, users can find your extension action icon to the

> right of the URL bar. 

Author: @dotproto Thanks for the copy and screenshots. I’m not quite clear where you want these screenshots to be placed. Should.I simply replace the current screenshots with the one you provided? Let me know

}
```

> ###  Activate the action conditionally  {: #activate_pages }

Reviewer: Not required for this PR, but we should probably talk about enabled/disabled action behaviors before diving into programmatically or declaratively modifying this state (see also ["Enabled state"](https://deploy-preview-2384--developer-chrome-com.netlify.app/docs/extensions/reference/action/#enabled-state)). Also, we don't currently cover that the [enable()](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/action/#method-enable) and [disable()](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/action/#method-disable) methods on this page.

The [declarativeContent][api-declarativecontent] API allows you to enable and disable the action
based on the page URL or if the CSS selectors match the elements on the page.

When an extension is disabled, the icon is greyscaled. If the user clicks on the disabled extension,
the extension's context menu will appear.

<figure>
{% Img src="image/BhuKGJaIeLNPW9ehns59NfwqKxF2/hlYsQJPFsF7WBAjJZ6DS.png", 
alt="Clicked Disabled extension", width="252", height="180", class="screenshot"%}  

<figcaption>
    Disabled extension.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

See [Emulating pageActions with declarativeContent][docs-emulating-page-actions] for an example on
how to disable the action by default and use the declarativeContent API to enable the action on

> specific sites.

Reviewer: Might be good to set some context on what a pageAction is before directing the reader to guidance on how to emulate them.

Author: I think I'm going to remove it for now.

## Provide the extension icons

An extension requires at least one icon to represent it. Provide icons in PNG format for the best

> visual results, although any format supported by WebKit including BMP, GIF, ICO, and JPEG is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visual results, although any raster format supported by Blink including BMP, GIF, ICO, and JPEG is
```

is declared in the manifest. 

Use badges to indicate the state of the extension. The [Drink Water][sample-drink] extension sample
displays a badge with "ON" to show the user they successfully set an alarm and displays nothing when
the extension is idle. Badges can contain up to 4 characters.

{% Img src="image/BrQidfK9jaQyIHwdw91aVpkPiib2/nXwAHSWLBEgT8099ITT0.png", alt="Badge On",
       height="72", width="72" %}

{% Img src="image/BrQidfK9jaQyIHwdw91aVpkPiib2/pNz8UgfTBMmcf7fE9wja.png", alt="Badge Off",
       height="72", width="72" %}

You can set the text of the badge by calling [`chrome.action.setBadgeText`][action-setbadgetext] and
the banner color by calling
[`chrome.action.setBadgeBackgroundColor`][action-setbadgebackgroundcolor].

```js
chrome.action.setBadgeText({text: 'ON'});
chrome.action.setBadgeBackgroundColor({color: '#4688F1'});
```

### Popup {: #popup }

A popup is an HTML file that is displayed in a special window when the user clicks the action icon.
A popup works very similarly to a web page; it can contain links to stylesheets and script tags, but
does not allow inline JavaScript. The popup cannot be smaller than 25x25 px nor larger than 800x600

> px.

Reviewer: Size requirements are also covered on the Action API page. Rather than include it here can we cross-link so there's only one canonical page with this info?

https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/action/#popup

## Additional UI features {: #additional_features }

### Action badge {: #badge }

> Badges display a colored banner on top of the action icon. They can only be used when the `"action"`

Author: Glad you asked! We should always strive to reduce friction for our devs 👍 😀 

In this case, It has to be in quotes because it's a JSON file key in the manifest.

> Badges display a colored banner on top of the action icon. They can only be used when the `"action"`

Author: Glad you asked! We should always strive to reduce friction for our devs 👍 😀 

In this case, It has to be in quotes because it's a JSON file key in the manifest.

is declared in the manifest. 

> Use badges to indicate the state of the extension. The [Drink Water][sample-drink] extension sample

Reviewer 2: Did you miss this one on purpose?

> Use badges to indicate the state of the extension. The [Drink Water][sample-drink] extension sample

Author: Not on purpose... that's for sure 😄 ... commiting this change as we speak... or type

}
```

Tooltips can also be set or updated by calling [`action.setTitle`][action-settitle].

### Click Event {: #click}

> It's possible to install a [click handler][action-onclicked] for when the user clicks the action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to register an [onClicked handler][action-onclicked] for when the user clicks the action
```

### Omnibox {: #omnibox }

Users can invoke extension functionality through the [omnibox][api-omnibox]. Include the `"omnibox"`
field in the manifest and designate a keyword. The [Omnibox New Tab Search][sample-new-tab-search]

> sample extension uses "nt" as the keyword.

Reviewer: Slight tweak that (hopefully) makes it more obvious that the quotes are not required.

```suggestion
sample extension uses `nt` as the keyword.
```

> When the user types "nt" into the omnibox, it activates the extension. To signal this to the user,

Reviewer: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/kbd

```suggestion
When the user types <kbd>nt</kbd> into the omnibox, it activates the extension. To signal this to the user,
```

The 16x16 icon is displayed next to the new menu entry.

{% Img src="image/BrQidfK9jaQyIHwdw91aVpkPiib2/jpA0DLCg2sEnwIf4FkLp.png", alt="Context Menu Icon",
height="300", width="300" %}

> Create a context menu by calling [`contextMenus.create`][contextmenu-create] in the background

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a context menu by calling [`contextMenus.create()`][contextmenu-create] in the background
```

```

The Global Google Search context menu example creates multiple options from the list in

> `locales.js`. When an extension contains more than one context menu, Google Chrome automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`locales.js`. When an extension contains more than one context menu, Chrome automatically
```

</html>
```

### Notifications

You can communicate relevant information to users by displaying notifications directly in their
system tray.

> To use the [`notifications`][api-notif] API, you must declare the `"notifications"` permission in

Reviewer: Could you do a pass to make sure that we're consistent in how we format and link APIs when introducing them? Unfortunately I don't think we have a consistent pattern across the site, but for the moment I'd suggest either sticking with "[Example API](#)" (`[Example API](#)`) or "[`example` API](#)" (``[`example` API](#)``). 

I don't have a strong preference for whether we use, but

Author: Okay will do!

the manifest.

```json/5
{ //manifest.json
  "name": "Drink Water Event Popup",
...
  "permissions": [
    "alarms",
    "notifications",
    "storage"
  ],
 ...
}
```

> In the Drink Water extension, you can remind users when to hydrate.

Reviewer: This line is generally restatting the purpose of the extension. Since this seems like it's a step in a mini tutorial, I'd suggest changing this prompt to something more contextually relevant.

```suggestion
Once the permission is declared, you can display a notification by calling [`notifications.create()`][notifications-create].

[notifications-create]: /docs/extensions/reference/notifications#method-create
```

```js
// background.js

> chrome.notifications.create({
>     type: 'basic',
>     iconUrl: 'stay_hydrated.png',
>     title: 'Time to Hydrate',
>     message: 'Everyday I\'m Guzzlin\'!',
>     buttons: [
>       { title: 'Keep it Flowing.' }
>     ],
>     priority: 0
>   });

Reviewer: The current formatting of this code snippet implies that this is the only thing in the background page. If that were the case, a notification would be displayed only when the background script is evaluated. 

I think it may be better to wrap this call in a named function. This implies that there's another part of the extension that will call `showStayHydratedNotification()` in order to, well, show the notification. 

```suggestion
function showStayHydratedNotification() {
  chrome.notifications.create({
    type: 'basic',
    iconUrl: 'stay_hydrated.png',
    title: 'Time to Hydrate',
    message: 'Everyday I\'m Guzzlin\'!',
    buttons: [
      { title: 'Keep it Flowing.' }
    ],
    priority: 0
  });
}
```

	  chrome.notifications.create({
	    type: 'basic',
	    iconUrl: 'stay_hydrated.png',
	    title: 'Time to Hydrate',
	    message: 'Everyday I\'m Guzzlin\'!',
	    buttons: [
	      { title: 'Keep it Flowing.' }
	    ],
	    priority: 0
	  });
	}
```

<figure>
{% Img src="image/BhuKGJaIeLNPW9ehns59NfwqKxF2/e5S112AtwfnA5o64JrGg.png", 
alt="Mac OS notification", width="500", height="150", class="screenshot" %}
  <figcaption>
    Notification in Mac OS
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Internationalize the UI {: #localize }

You can use the [`chrome.i18n` API][api-i18n] to internationalize your extension. Create directories
to house language specific messages within a folder called `_locales`, like this:

- `_locales/en/messages.json`
- `_locales/es/messages.json`

[Format messages][docs-locale-messages] inside of each language's `messages.json`. For example, the
following code localizes the tooltip:

{% Columns %}

{% Column %}

```json
// _locales/en/messages.json
{
  "__MSG_tooltip__": {
    "message": "Hello!",
    "description": "Tooltip"
  }
}
```

{% endColumn %}

{% Column %}

```json
// _locales/es/messages.json
{
  "__MSG_tooltip__": {
    "message": "Hola!",

>     "description": "Tooltip"

Author: This description is mostly for the developer to know what it is for. The extension users won't see it.

>     "description": "Tooltip"

Author: This description is mostly for the developer to know what it is for. The extension users won't see it.
